Welcome everyone to the solution lecture for the first interview question and the product design and
metrics category.
So this was the question asking about just the launch of messenger as a standalone app from Facebook.
It used to be a really common question.
Back in the day when this had just occurred.
Now it's been quite a while almost seven years now.
So let's go ahead and just talk in general about how you attract the performance of this new application
or what metrics you would use.
And hopefully these are these are general enough that you could go ahead and apply these to not just
this messenger application but any application.
And as a quick note there's lots of different possible answers.
Don't take this as the 100 percent correct solution.
This is more of an example answer.
Let's get started by thinking about some key metrics.
So there's daily active users and monthly active users.
And you'll often see the acronyms and Meiyu for these.
So make sure you're familiar with those.
Those are really important metrics for most technology companies to have user bases and daily monthly
active users.
In this case we can compare the before and after of daily active users and monthly active users to compare
if users have moved on to the new messenger application and how that's actually affected changes in
the original Facebook application.
So typically you're always going to want to have this metric and use it as a comparison from before
and after changes occur.
Another really common metric especially for mobile applications is total time spent especially that
mobile application depends on advertisement for its revenue.
So this allows you to compare total engagement before and after the launch of that standalone messenger
app so time spent on the application daily active users monthly active users.
Those are all really common metrics you can use for really any sort of application or web site analysis.
So let's go ahead now and focus on metrics that are a little more specific to the situation at hand
with the messenger application itself.
So some metrics we want to consider are the actual number of messages being sent before and after the
change.
So that is something that's related specifically to the messenger application.
And we can actually check here our users more engaged with sending more messages or are they less engaged
is sending less messages after it's a standalone application.
We can also check for response time to messages received.
Maybe we can compare and check if users are responding to messages they receive faster because they
have the standalone applications it's always on on their phone and they don't really need to log on
to Facebook anymore.
So keep in mind increased metrics can also sometimes be deceiving.
It may be the case that users are actually more annoyed by the application.
And for some convoluted reason that's causing them to increase their number of messages being sent.
Maybe they're having a hard time getting messages through.
So they have to keep trying sending messages over and over again.
So that could also be an issue.
So keep in mind that increase in metrics are not always positive things.
So your interviewer may ask you a follow up questions on say what could be some battery reasons that
these metrics are increasing.
So some questions that may arise are is it possible more time is being spent on the app because it's
harder to use.
Could this possibly affect advertising revenue changes in how as a previous facebook app affected by
the change maybe some users really only using the messenger portion of the Facebook app and now they've
basically kind of died or killed the Facebook app on their phone and now they're only using a messenger
which maybe is not something Facebook wants they want maybe a balance between both applications.
So always things to keep in mind that the wider idea of wider picture of these kind of big changes in
a company's applications so feel free to share other thoughts on this and the Q&A forums are lots of
right answers here.
I would recommend you practice for a friend.
In fact these are just discussions that are fun to have with a friend who's into technology companies.
Choose another major application.
Discuss how you would measure its success.
Maybe discuss changes you've seen in other applications on your phone maybe use snap chat or Uber or
any other of these popular applications.
Go ahead discuss them how you would measure their success what metrics you would use etc..
Again no 100 percent correct answers here.
More of a discussion of ideas.
Thanks and I'll see at the next lecture.